KFind
=====

Kfind is a frontend for the utility `find' inspired by the find
utility from NT.

At this time it is fully functional. All options available in kfind
are working. You can save the results, delete, change properties of
found files/directories, store them to an archive and ask kfm to open
the directory containing this file or execute default binding.

From version 0.2.9 kfind uses libkdeui so the widgets kmgsbox and ktabctl
were removed from kfind distribution.

Compilation 
----------- 

It is necessary to set the environment variables QTDIR and KDEDIR.
Then you have to install latest libkde and kfm!!! (unless you
installed them already). Then you can simply do ./configure, make and
make install. 

TODO
----

 o some layout managment
 o find pattern history
 o context menus
 o write a better widget for viewing results which would enable multiple
   selection
 o and more ...

BUGS
----
Probably many :-(( So if you find then it would be helpful
to send me a message.

THANKS 
------ 

I want to thank Alexander Sanda <alex@darkstar.ping.at> for making
KTabCtl and KMsgBox widgets which are used in Kfind and Torben Weis
<weis@stud.uni-frankfurt.de> for his wonderful filemanager kfm.


I hope you will find this program somehow useful and I would
appreciate any suggestions and comments.

        Miroslav Flídr
        <flidr@kky.zcu.cz>

CHANGES
-------
ver. 0.3.3:

 o uses KProcess
 o supports other languages then english (at this time german and czech)

ver. 0.3.2:

 o uses KTopLevelWidget and KToolBar
 o new documentations 
 
ver. 0.3.1:
 o new documentation contributed by Mark Roberts

ver. 0.3:
 o entry Open in File menu or doubleclick on file executes default binding
 o removed bug causing segfaults

ver. 0.2.9:
 o uses of autoconf
 o you can specify searched directory as kfind argument
 o added Icon entry in all provided filetypes (some were 
   missing this entry and kfm didn't liked it)

ver. 0.2.8:
 o kfind is now KDE AWARE application!!
 o uses libkde0.7 (=> kmsgbox and ktabctl removed from kfind distribution)
 o uses filetypes introduced by Torben Weis for kfm (kfind installs
   some more filetypes)
 o it is possible to store files in archives
 o preferences dialog added
        - it is possible to determine filename for results saving
        - it is possible to browse available filetypes details
        - it is possible to browse available archivers details
        (in next version you will be able to change the details)
 o calls kfm for properties dialog 
 o menu entry "remove" removed (kfm properties dialog does the job)
 o removed some bugs

ver. 0.2.6:
 o reflects changes made by Martin Hartig (known as version 0.2.1)

ver. 0.2.5:
 o implemented dir selection box (it is actually a littlebit changed
   and striped down version of QFileDialog)
 o delete, rename, properties functions are implemented
 o function "Open containing folder" implemented (it calls KFM)
 o search results are now saved in file ~/.kfind-results.html
   (I finally recognized this is better choice than plain text file) 
 o removed nasty bug causing segfaults when compiler optimization were
   used
 o improved Makefile

ver. 0.2:
 o all in kfind available options work now ;-))
 o better calling of find. It's now separate process => interface isn't 
   blocked anymore during searching 

ver. 0.1: first official release
